you look up and see a bright orange
flash in the sky
a bit later you hear a boom so loud
the window panes around you burst into
pieces and then
you see it a giant piece of space rock
burning high above your head heading for
earth
when it touches the surface the
explosion leaves behind an enormous
crater
it's 12 miles deep and as wide as lake
michigan
after that three quarters of all living
organisms on our
planet are on the edge of survival this
event took place about 66 million years
ago
and the bright flash in the sky was the
very asteroid that wiped out the
dinosaurs
these days people have many ways to
protect themselves
like we could hide in bunkers deep
underground and survive
such bunkers would already come in handy
since there are many
asteroids in the sky and some of them
are just waiting for their ticket to
earth
to wreak some havoc for example
the asteroid 1990 mu in 2027
it'll come alarmingly close to our
planet many people fear that earth's
gravitational pull will trap the rock
which is the size of two brooklyn
bridges in this case
it'll start to move closer and
eventually crash into the planet's
surface
such an impact would cause a shock wave
that would be felt on other continents
once the asteroid hit the ground there
would be an explosion
it'd be so bright people would think a
new sun appeared right here on earth
the collision would release a huge
amount of energy
that would then turn into heat
everything around the impact site would
catch
fire and if the asteroid fell in the
water
it would cause tsunami waves higher than
the empire state building
many coastal cities would be flooded the
dust that would rise after the explosion
would cover the sun
the world would be plunged into darkness
if the dust stayed in the air long
enough
the climate on the planet would change
and earth would start to freeze
if you think such a small meteorite can
cause serious damage
look at the chayabins meteor it hit the
earth in the winter of 2013.
when the space rock entered the
atmosphere people miles away heard a
loud bang
the brightly burning object was
approaching the surface at about 11
miles per second halfway through the
flight it split into several pieces
this caused several stronger shock waves
when the meteorites hit the ground
it caused a major earthquake and the
aftershock from the explosions
shattered the windows of five thousand
buildings people in six cities around
the crash site felt the after effects of
the fall
and this meteorite was only 60 feet wide
fortunately the asteroid 1990 mu will
move
past our planet we'll be safe
[Music]
but the next asteroid to approach earth
is going to be three miles wide
it's called 3122 florence if this giant
hit our planet
it could wipe entire continents off the
face of the earth
in 2017 this space rock got awfully
close to us
it could be seen in the sky even with a
small telescope
now the next asteroid is the biggest one
to worry about
1999 jm8 it's about as wide as manhattan
and it has an unnerving habit of
approaching earth a bit too close
for everyone's liking a small asteroid
named
2020 vt4 got closer to our planet than
all others have ever done in november
it flew over the pacific ocean at an
altitude a bit smaller than the distance
from los angeles to las vegas
that space rock was about the size of a
big car
if it did make it to earth's atmosphere
it would burn up completely before
touching the ground
falling asteroids and meteorites aren't
uncommon on our planet
luckily most of them burst into flames
and burn up
before they enter the atmosphere mars is
to blame for such frequent meteor
showers
the planet isn't far from the main
asteroid belt in the solar system
sometimes the gravitational pull of the
red planet
grabs asteroids from there then mars
spins them around
and flings them in our direction just
like a slingshot
so mars is a bullet good thing we're
protected by
jupiter it's the largest planet in our
solar system
and it has an incredibly strong
gravitational field
it keeps the asteroid belt in line and
protects us from being constantly hit by
a rain of meteorites
and that's good news considering ceres
is in the asteroid belt
this enormous space rock is so big that
it was once considered to be a planet
then for many years scientists called
ceres an
asteroid but in 2006
it was finally classified as a dwarf
planet
this space object contains a third of
the total mass of the asteroid belt
which is about four percent of the
moon's mass if earth were as large as a
nickel
ceres would be about the size of a poppy
seed
so what if an asteroid several miles
across
was heading toward our planet and people
had to stop it
well we could break the space rock into
smaller pieces
a massive explosion could be used to do
this people wouldn't even need to land
on the giant asteroid
getting close to its surface would be
enough boom
a powerful burst of energy would split
the asteroid into several large pieces
and tons of debris the smallest rocks
would burn in the heat released in the
blast
and it would also change the asteroid's
trajectory
the larger fragments would burn up while
entering the atmosphere
all witnesses of this unusual meteor
shower would have a chance to admire
a beautiful fire show another means of
protection could be a kinetic battering
ramp
simply put it would be a huge object
that people would send towards the
asteroid approaching earth
or it could be a heavy spaceship this is
the method scientists produce to prevent
the asteroid epoxis
from falling to earth this guy is 1200
feet across
and often passes by our planet coming as
close as 19 000 miles above
earth's surface the asteroid is going to
pass close to our planet again
in 2029 and there is a possibility that
in 3036
it might crash into the earth if it
happened the explosion would leave a
crater more than three miles across
within six miles of the impact zone
all buildings and subway tunnels would
be crushed or severely damaged
the event would also trigger a powerful
earthquake
in the area of 30 miles away from the
crater car windows and window panes and
houses would be shattered
and 75 miles away from the impact site
the earthquake would move furniture and
buildings
one way to stop such a catastrophe is to
build a heavy spaceship
it would take off from earth speed up
and then ram into the asteroid with
great force
this impact would alter the course of
the huge space rock and it would fly
past our planet we could also try to
stop the asteroid
by wrapping it in foil this would make
its surface reflective
and then solar pressure might gradually
change the asteroid's trajectory
another alternative is using the
gravitational tug
in this case we would send an unmanned
spaceship
large and heavy toward the asteroid it
would fly over the space rock
and slowly draw the thing closer with
its gravitational pull
a small change of course would be enough
to make the asteroid fly past
our planet another way to protect earth
would be to build a system of giant
lenses in space
perhaps you've tried focusing sunlight
with eyeglass lenses
then you know how hot this sunlight can
get
now imagine having many giant lenses
that are all directed at one point
scientists think that focusing such a
powerful beam of light on the asteroid
would make the rock melt and evaporate
slowly changing its root
and one more way to protect ourselves
from the asteroid would be to install
several rocket engines on its surface it
would turn the space object into a
rocket
and we could set its course from earth
rogue stars pose a much bigger danger
like asteroids
they fly through space and can collide
with anything in their path
the problem is that they have a gigantic
mass sometimes comparable to our suns
around seventy thousand years ago a duo
of rogue stars
whooshed past the sun it didn't affect
earth but caused some disturbance on the
outskirts of the solar system
this event is likely to happen again
someday
the rogue star gliese 710 about half the
mass of our sun
is moving toward our solar system right
now
there's a possibility that it'll begin
to grab asteroids from the outer
asteroid belt
and toss them at us and then rare meteor
showers you can observe these days will
become a regular
occurrence but right now this rogue star
is extremely far from our world
and there's a bigger chance that it'll
pass by
without affecting our peaceful existence